as pale as he was, her long blonde hair hanging down her back, but beneath
the table her slim fingers closed briefly on his wrist. At her touch, Malfoy put
his hand into his robes, withdrew a wand, and passed it along to V oldemort,
who held it up in front of his red eyes, examining it closely.
“What is it?”
“Elm, my Lord,
” whispered Malfoy.
“And the core?”
“Dragon — dragon heartstring.
”
“Good,
” said V oldemort. He drew out his own wand and compared the
lengths. Lucius Malfoy made an involuntary movement; for a fraction of a
second, it seemed he expected to receive V oldemort’s wand in exchange for
his own. The gesture was not missed by V oldemort, whose eyes widened
maliciously.
“Give you my wand, Lucius? My wand?”
Some of the throng sniggered.
“I have given you your liberty, Lucius, is that not enough for you? But I
have noticed that you and your family seem less than happy of late. . . . What
is it about my presence in your home that displeases you, Lucius?”
“Nothing — nothing, my Lord!”
“Such lies, Lucius . . .
”
The soft voice seemed to hiss on even after the cruel mouth had stopped
moving. One or two of the wizards barely repressed a shudder as the hissing
grew louder; something heavy could be heard sliding across the floor beneath
the table.
The huge snake emerged to climb slowly up V oldemort’s chair. It rose,
seemingly endlessly, and came to rest across V oldemort’s shoulders: its neck
the thickness of a man’s thigh; its eyes, with their vertical slits for pupils,
unblinking. V oldemort stroked the creature absently with long thin fingers,
still looking at Lucius Malfoy.
“Why do the Malfoys look so unhappy with their lot? Is my return, my rise
to power, not the very thing they professed to desire for so many years?”
“Of course, my Lord,
” said Lucius Malfoy. His hand shook as he wiped
sweat from his upper lip.
“We did desire it — we do.
”
To Malfoy’s left, his wife made an odd, stiff nod, her eyes averted from
V oldemort and the snake. To his right, his son, Draco, who had been gazing
up at the inert body overhead, glanced quickly at V oldemort and away again,
terrified to make eye contact.
“My Lord,
” said a dark woman halfway down the table, her voice
constricted with emotion,
“it is an honor to have you here, in our family’s
house. There can be no higher pleasure.
”
She sat beside her sister, as unlike her in looks, with her dark hair and
heavily lidded eyes, as she was in bearing and demeanor; where Narcissa sat
rigid and impassive, Bellatrix leaned toward V oldemort, for mere words could
not demonstrate her longing for closeness.
“No higher pleasure,
” repeated V oldemort, his head tilted a little to one side
as he considered Bellatrix.
“That means a great deal, Bellatrix, from you.
”
Her face flooded with color; her eyes welled with tears of delight.
“My Lord knows I speak nothing but the truth!”
“No higher pleasure . . . even compared with the happy event that, I hear,
has taken place in your family this week?”
She stared at him, her lips parted, evidently confused.
“I don’t know what you mean, my Lord.
”
“I’m talking about your niece, Bellatrix. And yours, Lucius and Narcissa.
She has just married the werewolf, Remus Lupin. Y ou must be so proud.
”
There was an eruption of jeering laughter from around the table. Many
leaned forward to exchange gleeful looks; a few thumped the table with their
fists. The great snake, disliking the disturbance, opened its mouth wide and
hissed angrily, but the Death Eaters did not hear it, so jubilant were they at
Bellatrix and the Malfoys’ humiliation. Bellatrix’s face, so recently flushed
with happiness, had turned an ugly, blotchy red.
“She is no niece of ours, my Lord,
” she cried over the outpouring of mirth.
“We — Narcissa and I — have never set eyes on our sister since she married
the Mudblood. This brat has nothing to do with either of us, nor any beast she
marries.
”
“What say you, Draco?” asked V oldemort, and though his voice was quiet,
it carried clearly through the catcalls and jeers.
“Will you babysit the cubs?”
The hilarity mounted; Draco Malfoy looked in terror at his father, who was
staring down into his own lap, then caught his mother’s eye. She shook her
head almost imperceptibly, then resumed her own deadpan stare at the
opposite wall.
“Enough,
” said V oldemort, stroking the angry snake.
“Enough.
”
And the laughter died at once.
“Many of our oldest family trees become a little diseased over time,
” he
said as Bellatrix gazed at him, breathless and imploring.
“Y ou must prune
yours, must you not, to keep it healthy? Cut away those parts that threaten the
health of the rest.
”
“Y es, my Lord,
” whispered Bellatrix, and her eyes swam with tears of
gratitude again.
“At the first chance!”
“Y ou shall have it,
” said V oldemort.
“And in your family, so in the
world . . . we shall cut away the canker that infects us until only those of the
true blood remain. . . .
”
V oldemort raised Lucius Malfoy’s wand, pointed it directly at the slowly
revolving figure suspended over the table, and gave it a tiny flick. The figure
came to life with a groan and began to struggle against invisible bonds.
“Do you recognize our guest, Severus?” asked V oldemort.
Snape raised his eyes to the upside-down face. All of the Death Eaters were
looking up at the captive now, as though they had been given permission to
show curiosity. As she revolved to face the firelight, the woman said in a
cracked and terrified voice,
“Severus! Help me!”
“Ah, yes,
” said Snape as the prisoner turned slowly away again.
“And you, Draco?” asked V oldemort, stroking the snake’s snout with his
wand-free hand. Draco shook his head jerkily. Now that the woman had
woken, he seemed unable to look at her anymore.
“But you would not have taken her classes,
” said V oldemort.
“For those of
you who do not know, we are joined here tonight by Charity Burbage who,
until recently, taught at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry.
”
There were small noises of comprehension around the table. A broad,
hunched woman with pointed teeth cackled.
“Y es . . . Professor Burbage taught the children of witches and wizards all
about Muggles . . . how they are not so different from us . . . .
”
One of the Death Eaters spat on the floor. Charity Burbage revolved to face
Snape again.
“Severus . . . please . . . please . . .
”
“Silence,
” said V oldemort, with another twitch of Malfoy’s wand, and
Charity fell silent as if gagged.
“Not content with corrupting and polluting the
minds of Wizarding children, last week Professor Burbage wrote an
impassioned defense of Mudbloods in the Daily Prophet. Wizards, she says,
must accept these thieves of their knowledge and magic. The dwindling of the
purebloods is, says Professor Burbage, a most desirable circumstance. . . . She
would have us all mate with Muggles . . . or, no doubt, werewolves. . . .
”
Nobody laughed this time: There was no mistaking the anger and contempt
in V oldemort’s voice. For the third time, Charity Burbage revolved to face
Snape. Tears were pouring from her eyes into her hair. Snape looked back at
her, quite impassive, as she turned slowly away from him again.
“Avada Kedavra.
”
The flash of green light illuminated every corner of the room. Charity fell,
with a resounding crash, onto the table below, which trembled and creaked.
Several of the Death Eaters leapt back in their chairs. Draco fell out of his
onto the floor.
“Dinner, Nagini,
” said V oldemort softly, and the great snake swayed and
slithered from his shoulders onto the polished wood.
CHAPTER TWO
IN MEMORIAM
H
arry was bleeding. Clutching his right hand in his left and swearing
under his breath, he shouldered open his bedroom door. There was a
crunch of breaking china: He had trodden on a cup of cold tea that had been
sitting on the floor outside his bedroom door.
“What the — ?”
He looked around; the landing of number four, Privet Drive, was deserted.
Possibly the cup of tea was Dudley’s idea of a clever booby trap. Keeping his
bleeding hand elevated, Harry scraped the fragments of cup together with the
other hand and threw them into the already crammed bin just visible inside his
bedroom door. Then he tramped across to the bathroom to run his finger
under the tap.
It was stupid, pointless, irritating beyond belief that he still had four days
left of being unable to perform magic . . . but he had to admit to himself that
this jagged cut in his finger would have defeated him. He had never learned
how to repair wounds, and now he came to think of it — particularly in light
of his immediate plans — this seemed a serious flaw in his magical education.
Making a mental note to ask Hermione how it was done, he used a large wad
of toilet paper to mop up as much of the tea as he could, before returning to
his bedroom and slamming the door behind him.
Harry had spent the morning completely emptying his school trunk for the
first time since he had packed it six years ago. At the start of the intervening
school years, he had merely skimmed off the topmost three quarters of the
contents and replaced or updated them, leaving a layer of general debris at the
bottom — old quills, desiccated beetle eyes, single socks that no longer fit.
Minutes previously, Harry had plunged his hand into this mulch, experienced
a stabbing pain in the fourth finger of his right hand, and withdrawn it to see a
lot of blood.
He now proceeded a little more cautiously. Kneeling down beside the trunk
again, he groped around in the bottom and, after retrieving an old badge that
flickered feebly between SUPPORT CEDRIC DIGGORY and POTTER STINKS,
a cracked and worn-out Sneakoscope, and a gold locket inside which a note
signed R.A.B. had been hidden, he finally discovered the sharp edge that had
done the damage. He recognized it at once. It was a two-inch-long fragment
of the enchanted mirror that his dead godfather, Sirius, had given him. Harry
laid it aside and felt cautiously around the trunk for the rest, but nothing more
remained of his godfather’s last gift except powdered glass, which clung to
the deepest layer of debris like glittering grit.
Harry sat up and examined the jagged piece on which he had cut himself,
seeing nothing but his own bright green eye reflected back at him. Then he
placed the fragment on top of that morning’s Daily Prophet, which lay unread
on the bed, and attempted to stem the sudden upsurge of bitter memories, the
stabs of regret and of longing the discovery of the broken mirror had
occasioned, by attacking the rest of the rubbish in the trunk.
It took another hour to empty it completely, throw away the useless items,
and sort the remainder in piles according to whether or not he would need
them from now on. His school and Quidditch robes, cauldron, parchment,
quills, and most of his textbooks were piled in a corner, to be left behind. He
wondered what his aunt and uncle would do with them; burn them in the dead
of night, probably, as if they were the evidence of some dreadful crime. His
Muggle clothing, Invisibility Cloak, potion-making kit, certain books, the
photograph album Hagrid had once given him, a stack of letters, and his wand
had been repacked into an old rucksack. In a front pocket were the
Marauder’s Map and the locket with the note signed R.A.B. inside it. The
locket was accorded this place of honor not because it was valuable — in all
usual senses it was worthless — but because of what it had cost to attain it.
This left a sizable stack of newspapers sitting on his desk beside his snowy
owl, Hedwig: one for each of the days Harry had spent at Privet Drive this
summer.
He got up off the floor, stretched, and moved across to his desk. Hedwig
made no movement as he began to flick through the newspapers, throwing
them onto the rubbish pile one by one. The owl was asleep, or else faking; she
was angry with Harry about the limited amount of time she was allowed out
of her cage at the moment.
As he neared the bottom of the pile of newspapers, Harry slowed down,
searching for one particular issue that he knew had arrived shortly after he
had returned to Privet Drive for the summer; he remembered that there had
been a small mention on the front about the resignation of Charity Burbage,
the Muggle Studies teacher at Hogwarts. At last he found it. Turning to page
ten, he sank into his desk chair and reread the article he had been looking for.
ALBUS DUMBLEDORE REMEMBERED
by Elphias Doge
I met Albus Dumbledore at the age of eleven, on our first day
at Hogwarts. Our mutual attraction was undoubtedly due to
the fact that we both felt ourselves to be outsiders. I had
contracted dragon pox shortly before arriving at school, and
while I was no longer contagious, my pockmarked visage and greenish
hue did not encourage many to approach me. For his part, Albus had
arrived at Hogwarts under the burden of unwanted notoriety. Scarcely a
year previously, his father, Percival, had been convicted of a savage and
well-publicized attack upon three young Muggles.
Albus never attempted to deny that his father (who was to die in
Azkaban) had committed this crime; on the contrary, when I plucked up
courage to ask him, he assured me that he knew his father to be guilty.
Beyond that, Dumbledore refused to speak of the sad business, though
many attempted to make him do so. Some, indeed, were disposed to
praise his father’s action and assumed that Albus too was a Muggle-
hater. They could not have been more mistaken: As anybody who knew
Albus would attest, he never revealed the remotest anti-Muggle
tendency. Indeed, his determined support for Muggle rights gained him
many enemies in subsequent years.
In a matter of months, however, Albus’s own fame had begun to
eclipse that of his father. By the end of his first year he would never
again be known as the son of a Muggle-hater, but as nothing more or less
than the most brilliant student ever seen at the school. Those of us who
were privileged to be his friends benefited from his example, not to
mention his help and encouragement, with which he was always
generous. He confessed to me in later life that he knew even then that his
greatest pleasure lay in teaching.
He not only won every prize of note that the school offered, he was
soon in regular correspondence with the most notable magical names of
the day, including Nicolas Flamel, the celebrated alchemist; Bathilda
Bagshot, the noted historian; and Adalbert Waffling, the magical
theoretician. Several of his papers found their way into learned
publications such as Transfiguration Today, Challenges in Charming,
and The Practical Potioneer . Dumbledore’s future career seemed likely
to be meteoric, and the only question that remained was when he would
become Minister of Magic. Though it was often predicted in later years
that he was on the point of taking the job, however, he never had
Ministerial ambitions.
Three years after we had started at Hogwarts, Albus’s brother,
Aberforth, arrived at school. They were not alike; Aberforth was never
bookish and, unlike Albus, preferred to settle arguments by dueling
rather than through reasoned discussion. However, it is quite wrong to
suggest, as some have, that the brothers were not friends. They rubbed
along as comfortably as two such different boys could do. In fairness to
Aberforth, it must be admitted that living in Albus’s shadow cannot have
been an altogether comfortable experience. Being continually outshone
was an occupational hazard of being his friend and cannot have been any
more pleasurable as a brother.
When Albus and I left Hogwarts we intended to take the then-
traditional tour of the world together, visiting and observing foreign
wizards, before pursuing our separate careers. However, tragedy
intervened. On the very eve of our trip, Albus’s mother, Kendra, died,
leaving Albus the head, and sole breadwinner, of the family. I postponed
my departure long enough to pay my respects at Kendra’s funeral, then
left for what was now to be a solitary journey. With a younger brother
and sister to care for, and little gold left to them, there could no longer be
any question of Albus accompanying me.
That was the period of our lives when we had least contact. I wrote to
Albus, describing, perhaps insensitively, the wonders of my journey,
from narrow escapes from chimaeras in Greece to the experiments of the
Egyptian alchemists. His letters told me little of his day-to-day life,
which I guessed to be frustratingly dull for such a brilliant wizard.
Immersed in my own experiences, it was with horror that I heard, toward
the end of my year’s travels, that yet another tragedy had struck the
Dumbledores: the death of his sister, Ariana.
Though Ariana had been in poor health for a long time, the blow,
coming so soon after the loss of their mother, had a profound effect on
both of her brothers. All those closest to Albus — and I count myself one
of that lucky number — agree that Ariana’s death, and Albus’s feeling of
personal responsibility for it (though, of course, he was guiltless), left
their mark upon him forevermore.
I returned home to find a young man who had experienced a much
older person’s suffering. Albus was more reserved than before, and much
less lighthearted. To add to his misery, the loss of Ariana had led, not to a
renewed closeness between Albus and Aberforth, but to an estrangement.
(In time this would lift — in later years they reestablished, if not a close
relationship, then certainly a cordial one.) However, he rarely spoke of
his parents or of Ariana from then on, and his friends learned not to
mention them.
Other quills will describe the triumphs of the following years.
Dumbledore’s innumerable contributions to the store of Wizarding
knowledge, including his discovery of the twelve uses of dragon’s blood,
will benefit generations to come, as will the wisdom he displayed in the
many judgments he made while Chief Warlock of the Wizengamot. They
say, still, that no Wizarding duel ever matched that between Dumbledore
and Grindelwald in 1945. Those who witnessed it have written of the
terror and the awe they felt as they watched these two extraordinary
wizards do battle. Dumbledore’s triumph, and its consequences for the
Wizarding world, are considered a turning point in magical history to
match the introduction of the International Statute of Secrecy or the
downfall of He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named.
Albus Dumbledore was never proud or vain; he could find something
to value in anyone, however apparently insignificant or wretched, and I
believe that his early losses endowed him with great humanity and
sympathy. I shall miss his friendship more than I can say, but my loss is
as nothing compared to the Wizarding world’s. That he was the most
inspiring and the best loved of all Hogwarts headmasters cannot be in
question. He died as he lived: working always for the greater good and,
to his last hour, as willing to stretch out a hand to a small boy with
dragon pox as he was on the day that I met him.
Harry finished reading but continued to gaze at the picture accompanying
the obituary. Dumbledore was wearing his familiar, kindly smile, but as he
peered over the top of his half-moon spectacles, he gave the impression, even
in newsprint, of X-raying Harry, whose sadness mingled with a sense of
humiliation.
He had thought he knew Dumbledore quite well, but ever since reading this
obituary he had been forced to recognize that he had barely known him at all.
Never once had he imagined Dumbledore’s childhood or youth; it was as
though he had sprung into being as Harry had known him, venerable and
silver-haired and old. The idea of a teenage Dumbledore was simply odd, like
trying to imagine a stupid Hermione or a friendly Blast-Ended Skrewt.
He had never thought to ask Dumbledore about his past. No doubt it would
have felt strange, impertinent even, but after all, it had been common
knowledge that Dumbledore had taken part in that legendary duel with
Grindelwald, and Harry had not thought to ask Dumbledore what that had
been like, nor about any of his other famous achievements. No, they had
always discussed Harry, Harry’s past, Harry’s future, Harry’s plans . . . and it
seemed to Harry now, despite the fact that his future was so dangerous and so
uncertain, that he had missed irreplaceable opportunities when he had failed
to ask Dumbledore more about himself, even though the only personal
question he had ever asked his headmaster was also the only one he suspected
that Dumbledore had not answered honestly:
“What do you see when you look in the mirror?”
“I? I see myself holding a pair of thick, woolen socks.
”
After several minutes’ thought, Harry tore the obituary out of the Prophet,
folded it carefully, and tucked it inside the first volume of Practical Defensive
Magic and Its Use Against the Dark Arts. Then he threw the rest of the
newspaper onto the rubbish pile and turned to face the room. It was much
tidier. The only things left out of place were today’s Daily Prophet, still lying
on the bed, and on top of it, the piece of broken mirror.
Harry moved across the room, slid the mirror fragment off today’s Prophet,
and unfolded the newspaper. He had merely glanced at the headline when he
had taken the rolled-up paper from the delivery owl early that morning and
thrown it aside, after noting that it said nothing about V oldemort. Harry was
sure that the Ministry was leaning on the Prophet to suppress news about
V oldemort. It was only now, therefore, that he saw what he had missed.
Across the bottom half of the front page a smaller headline was set over a
picture of Dumbledore striding along looking harried:
DUMBLEDORE — THE TRUTH AT LAST?
Coming next week, the shocking story of the flawed genius considered
by many to be the greatest wizard of his generation. Stripping away the
popular image of serene, silver-bearded wisdom, Rita Skeeter reveals the
disturbed childhood, the lawless youth, the lifelong feuds, and the guilty
secrets that Dumbledore carried to his grave. WHY was the man tipped
