large poster of the Wizarding band the Weird Sisters on one wall, and a
picture of Gwenog Jones, Captain of the all-witch Quidditch team the
Holyhead Harpies, on the other. A desk stood facing the open window, which
looked out over the orchard where he and Ginny had once played two-a-side
Quidditch with Ron and Hermione, and which now housed a large, pearly
white marquee. The golden flag on top was level with Ginny’s window.
Ginny looked up into Harry’s face, took a deep breath, and said,
“Happy
seventeenth.
”
“Y eah . . . thanks.
”
She was looking at him steadily; he, however, found it difficult to look
back at her; it was like gazing into a brilliant light.
“Nice view,
” he said feebly, pointing toward the window.
She ignored this. He could not blame her.
“I couldn’t think what to get you,
” she said.
“Y ou didn’t have to get me anything.
”
She disregarded this too.
“I didn’t know what would be useful. Nothing too big, because you
wouldn’t be able to take it with you.
”
He chanced a glance at her. She was not tearful; that was one of the many
wonderful things about Ginny, she was rarely weepy. He had sometimes
thought that having six brothers must have toughened her up.
She took a step closer to him.
“So then I thought, I’d like you to have something to remember me by, you
know, if you meet some veela when you’re off doing whatever you’re doing.
”
“I think dating opportunities are going to be pretty thin on the ground, to be
honest.
”
“There’s the silver lining I’ve been looking for,
” she whispered, and then
she was kissing him as she had never kissed him before, and Harry was
kissing her back, and it was blissful oblivion, better than firewhisky; she was
the only real thing in the world, Ginny, the feel of her, one hand at her back
and one in her long, sweet-smelling hair —
The door banged open behind them and they jumped apart.
“Oh,
” said Ron pointedly.
“Sorry.
”
“Ron!” Hermione was just behind him, slightly out of breath. There was a
strained silence, then Ginny said in a flat little voice,
“Well, happy birthday anyway, Harry.
”
Ron’s ears were scarlet; Hermione looked nervous. Harry wanted to slam
the door in their faces, but it felt as though a cold draft had entered the room
when the door opened, and his shining moment had popped like a soap
bubble. All the reasons for ending his relationship with Ginny, for staying
well away from her, seemed to have slunk inside the room with Ron, and all
happy forgetfulness was gone.
He looked at Ginny, wanting to say something, though he hardly knew
what, but she had turned her back on him. He thought that she might have
succumbed, for once, to tears. He could not do anything to comfort her in
front of Ron.
“I’ll see you later,
” he said, and followed the other two out of the bedroom.
Ron marched downstairs, through the still-crowded kitchen and into the
yard, and Harry kept pace with him all the way, Hermione trotting along
behind them looking scared.
Once he reached the seclusion of the freshly mown lawn, Ron rounded on
Harry.
“Y ou ditched her. What are you doing now, messing her around?”
“I’m not messing her around,
” said Harry, as Hermione caught up with
them.
“Ron —
”
But Ron held up a hand to silence her.
“She was really cut up when you ended it —
”
“So was I. Y ou know why I stopped it, and it wasn’t because I wanted to.
”
“Y eah, but you go snogging her now and she’s just going to get her hopes
up again —
”
“She’s not an idiot, she knows it can’t happen, she’s not expecting us to —
to end up married, or —
”
As he said it, a vivid picture formed in Harry’s mind of Ginny in a white
dress, marrying a tall, faceless, and unpleasant stranger. In one spiraling
moment it seemed to hit him: Her future was free and unencumbered, whereas
his . . . he could see nothing but V oldemort ahead.
“If you keep groping her every chance you get —
”
“It won’t happen again,
” said Harry harshly. The day was cloudless, but he
felt as though the sun had gone in.
“Okay?”
Ron looked half resentful, half sheepish; he rocked backward and forward
on his feet for a moment, then said,
“Right then, well, that’s . . . yeah.
”
Ginny did not seek another one-to-one meeting with Harry for the rest of
the day, nor by any look or gesture did she show that they had shared more
than polite conversation in her room. Nevertheless, Charlie’s arrival came as a
relief to Harry. It provided a distraction, watching Mrs. Weasley force Charlie
into a chair, raise her wand threateningly, and announce that he was about to
get a proper haircut.
As Harry’s birthday dinner would have stretched the Burrow’s kitchen to
breaking point even before the arrival of Charlie, Lupin, Tonks, and Hagrid,
several tables were placed end to end in the garden. Fred and George
bewitched a number of purple lanterns, all emblazoned with a large number
17, to hang in midair over the guests. Thanks to Mrs. Weasley’s ministrations,
George’s wound was neat and clean, but Harry was not yet used to the dark
hole in the side of his head, despite the twins’ many jokes about it.
Hermione made purple and gold streamers erupt from the end of her wand
and drape themselves artistically over the trees and bushes.
“Nice,
” said Ron, as with one final flourish of her wand, Hermione turned
the leaves on the crabapple tree to gold.
“Y ou’ve really got an eye for that sort
of thing.
”
“Thank you, Ron!” said Hermione, looking both pleased and a little
confused. Harry turned away, smiling to himself. He had a funny notion that
he would find a chapter on compliments when he found time to peruse his
copy of Twelve Fail-Safe Ways to Charm Witches; he caught Ginny’s eye and
grinned at her before remembering his promise to Ron and hurriedly striking
up a conversation with Monsieur Delacour.
“Out of the way, out of the way!” sang Mrs. Weasley, coming through the
gate with what appeared to be a giant, beach-ball-sized Snitch floating in front
of her. Seconds later Harry realized that it was his birthday cake, which Mrs.
Weasley was suspending with her wand, rather than risk carrying it over the
uneven ground. When the cake had finally landed in the middle of the table,
Harry said,
“That looks amazing, Mrs. Weasley.
”
“Oh, it’s nothing, dear,
” she said fondly. Over her shoulder, Ron gave
Harry the thumbs-up and mouthed, Good one.
By seven o’clock all the guests had arrived, led into the house by Fred and
George, who had waited for them at the end of the lane. Hagrid had honored
the occasion by wearing his best, and horrible, hairy brown suit. Although
Lupin smiled as he shook Harry’s hand, Harry thought he looked rather
unhappy. It was all very odd; Tonks, beside him, looked simply radiant.
“Happy birthday, Harry,
” she said, hugging him tightly.
“Seventeen, eh!” said Hagrid as he accepted a bucket-sized glass of wine
from Fred.
“Six years ter the day since we met, Harry, d’yeh remember it?”
“V aguely,
” said Harry, grinning up at him.
“Didn’t you smash down the
front door, give Dudley a pig’s tail, and tell me I was a wizard?”
“I forge’ the details,
” Hagrid chortled.
“All righ’
, Ron, Hermione?”
“We’re fine,
” said Hermione.
“How are you?”
“Ar, not bad. Bin busy, we got some newborn unicorns, I’ll show yeh when
yeh get back —
” Harry avoided Ron’s and Hermione’s gazes as Hagrid
rummaged in his pocket.
“Here, Harry — couldn’ think what ter get yeh, but
then I remembered this.
” He pulled out a small, slightly furry drawstring
pouch with a long string, evidently intended to be worn around the neck.
“Mokeskin. Hide anythin’ in there an’ no one but the owner can get it out.
They’re rare, them.
”
“Hagrid, thanks!”
“’S’nothin’
,
” said Hagrid with a wave of a dustbin-lid-sized hand.
there’s Charlie! Always liked him — hey! Charlie!”
“An’
Charlie approached, running his hand slightly ruefully over his new,
brutally short haircut. He was shorter than Ron, thickset, with a number of
burns and scratches up his muscley arms.
“Hi, Hagrid, how’s it going?”
“Bin meanin’ ter write fer ages. How’s Norbert doin’?”
“Norbert?” Charlie laughed.
Norberta now.
”
“The Norwegian Ridgeback? We call her
“Wha — Norbert’s a girl?”
“Oh yeah,
” said Charlie.
“How can you tell?” asked Hermione.
“They’re a lot more vicious,
” said Charlie. He looked over his shoulder and
dropped his voice.
“Wish Dad would hurry up and get here. Mum’s getting
edgy.
”
They all looked over at Mrs. Weasley. She was trying to talk to Madame
Delacour while glancing repeatedly at the gate.
“I think we’d better start without Arthur,
” she called to the garden at large
after a moment or two.
“He must have been held up at — oh!”
They all saw it at the same time: a streak of light that came flying across
the yard and onto the table, where it resolved itself into a bright silver weasel,
which stood on its hind legs and spoke with Mr. Weasley’s voice.
“Minister of Magic coming with me.
”
The Patronus dissolved into thin air, leaving Fleur’s family peering in
astonishment at the place where it had vanished.
“We shouldn’t be here,
” said Lupin at once.
explain another time —
”
“Harry — I’m sorry — I’ll
He seized Tonks’s wrist and pulled her away; they reached the fence,
climbed over it, and vanished from sight. Mrs. Weasley looked bewildered.
“The Minister — but why — ? I don’t understand —
”
But there was no time to discuss the matter; a second later, Mr. Weasley
had appeared out of thin air at the gate, accompanied by Rufus Scrimgeour,
instantly recognizable by his mane of grizzled hair.
The two newcomers marched across the yard toward the garden and the
lantern-lit table, where everybody sat in silence, watching them draw closer.
As Scrimgeour came within range of the lantern light, Harry saw that he
looked much older than the last time they had met, scraggy and grim.
“Sorry to intrude,
” said Scrimgeour, as he limped to a halt before the table.
“Especially as I can see that I am gate-crashing a party.
”
His eyes lingered for a moment on the giant Snitch cake.
“Many happy returns.
”
“Thanks,
” said Harry.
“I require a private word with you,
” Scrimgeour went on.
Ronald Weasley and Miss Hermione Granger.
”
“Also with Mr.
“Us?” said Ron, sounding surprised.
“Why us?”
“I shall tell you that when we are somewhere more private,
” said
Scrimgeour.
“Is there such a place?” he demanded of Mr. Weasley.
“Y es, of course,
” said Mr. Weasley, who looked nervous.
room, why don’t you use that?”
“The, er, sitting
“Y ou can lead the way,
” Scrimgeour said to Ron.
for you to accompany us, Arthur.
”
“There will be no need
Harry saw Mr. Weasley exchange a worried look with Mrs. Weasley as he,
Ron, and Hermione stood up. As they led the way back to the house in
silence, Harry knew that the other two were thinking the same as he was:
Scrimgeour must, somehow, have learned that the three of them were
planning to drop out of Hogwarts.
Scrimgeour did not speak as they all passed through the messy kitchen and
into the Burrow’s sitting room. Although the garden had been full of soft
golden evening light, it was already dark in here: Harry flicked his wand at
the oil lamps as he entered and they illuminated the shabby but cozy room.
Scrimgeour sat himself in the sagging armchair that Mr. Weasley normally
occupied, leaving Harry, Ron, and Hermione to squeeze side by side onto the
sofa. Once they had done so, Scrimgeour spoke.
“I have some questions for the three of you, and I think it will be best if we
do it individually. If you two”
— he pointed at Harry and Hermione —
“can
wait upstairs, I will start with Ronald.
”
“We’re not going anywhere,
” said Harry, while Hermione nodded
vigorously.
“Y ou can speak to us together, or not at all.
”
Scrimgeour gave Harry a cold, appraising look. Harry had the impression
that the Minister was wondering whether it was worthwhile opening
hostilities this early.
“V ery well then, together,
” he said, shrugging. He cleared his throat.
here, as I’m sure you know, because of Albus Dumbledore’s will.
”
“I am
Harry, Ron, and Hermione looked at one another.
“A surprise, apparently! Y ou were not aware then that Dumbledore had left
you anything?”
“A-all of us?” said Ron.
“Me and Hermione too?”
“Y es, all of —
”
But Harry interrupted.
“Dumbledore died over a month ago. Why has it taken this long to give us
what he left us?”
“Isn’t it obvious?” said Hermione, before Scrimgeour could answer.
“They
wanted to examine whatever he’s left us. Y ou had no right to do that!” she
said, and her voice trembled slightly.
“I had every right,
” said Scrimgeour dismissively.
“The Decree for
Justifiable Confiscation gives the Ministry the power to confiscate the
contents of a will —
”
“That law was created to stop wizards passing on Dark artifacts,
” said
Hermione,
“and the Ministry is supposed to have powerful evidence that the
deceased’s possessions are illegal before seizing them! Are you telling me
that you thought Dumbledore was trying to pass us something cursed?”
“Are you planning to follow a career in Magical Law, Miss Granger?”
asked Scrimgeour.
“No, I’m not,
” retorted Hermione.
world!”
“I’m hoping to do some good in the
Ron laughed. Scrimgeour’s eyes flickered toward him and away again as
Harry spoke.
“So why have you decided to let us have our things now? Can’t think of a
pretext to keep them?”
“No, it’ll be because the thirty-one days are up,
” said Hermione at once.
“They can’t keep the objects longer than that unless they can prove they’re
dangerous. Right?”
“Would you say you were close to Dumbledore, Ronald?” asked
Scrimgeour, ignoring Hermione. Ron looked startled.
“Me? Not — not really . . . It was always Harry who . . .
”
Ron looked around at Harry and Hermione, to see Hermione giving him a
stop-talking-now! sort of look, but the damage was done: Scrimgeour looked
as though he had heard exactly what he had expected, and wanted, to hear. He
swooped like a bird of prey upon Ron’s answer.
“If you were not very close to Dumbledore, how do you account for the
fact that he remembered you in his will? He made exceptionally few personal
bequests. The vast majority of his possessions — his private library, his
magical instruments, and other personal effects — were left to Hogwarts.
Why do you think you were singled out?”
“I . . . dunno,
” said Ron.
think he liked me. . . .
”
“I . . . when I say we weren’t close . . . I mean, I
“Y ou’re being modest, Ron,
” said Hermione.
“Dumbledore was very fond
of you.
”
This was stretching the truth to breaking point; as far as Harry knew, Ron
and Dumbledore had never been alone together, and direct contact between
them had been negligible. However, Scrimgeour did not seem to be listening.
He put his hand inside his cloak and drew out a drawstring pouch much larger
than the one Hagrid had given Harry. From it, he removed a scroll of
parchment which he unrolled and read aloud.
“‘The Last Will and Testament of Albus Percival Wulfric Brian
Dumbledore’
. . . Y es, here we are . . .
‘To Ronald Bilius Weasley, I leave my
Deluminator , in the hope that he will remember me when he uses it.
’”
Scrimgeour took from the bag an object that Harry had seen before: It
looked something like a silver cigarette lighter, but it had, he knew, the power
to suck all light from a place, and restore it, with a simple click. Scrimgeour
leaned forward and passed the Deluminator to Ron, who took it and turned it
over in his fingers, looking stunned.
“That is a valuable object,
” said Scrimgeour, watching Ron.
“It may even
be unique. Certainly it is of Dumbledore’s own design. Why would he have
left you an item so rare?”
Ron shook his head, looking bewildered.
“Dumbledore must have taught thousands of students,
” Scrimgeour
persevered.
“Y et the only ones he remembered in his will are you three. Why
is that? To what use did he think you would put his Deluminator, Mr.
Weasley?”
“Put out lights, I s’pose,
” mumbled Ron.
“What else could I do with it?”
Evidently Scrimgeour had no suggestions. After squinting at Ron for a
moment or two, he turned back to Dumbledore’s will.
“‘To Miss Hermione Jean Granger , I leave my copy of The Tales of Beedle
the Bard, in the hope that she will find it entertaining and instructive.
’”
Scrimgeour now pulled out of the bag a small book that looked as ancient
as the copy of Secrets of the Darkest Art upstairs. Its binding was stained and
peeling in places. Hermione took it from Scrimgeour without a word. She
held the book in her lap and gazed at it. Harry saw that the title was in runes;
he had never learned to read them. As he looked, a tear splashed onto the
embossed symbols.
“Why do you think Dumbledore left you that book, Miss Granger?” asked
Scrimgeour.
“He . . . he knew I liked books,
” said Hermione in a thick voice, mopping
her eyes with her sleeve.
“But why that particular book?”
“I don’t know. He must have thought I’d enjoy it.
”
“Did you ever discuss codes, or any means of passing secret messages,
with Dumbledore?”
“No, I didn’t,
” said Hermione, still wiping her eyes on her sleeve.
“And if
the Ministry hasn’t found any hidden codes in this book in thirty-one days, I
doubt that I will.
”
She suppressed a sob. They were wedged together so tightly that Ron had
difficulty extracting his arm to put it around Hermione’s shoulders.
Scrimgeour turned back to the will.
“‘To Harry James Potter ,
’” he read, and Harry’s insides contracted with a
sudden excitement,
“‘I leave the Snitch he caught in his first Quidditch match
at Hogwarts, as a reminder of the rewards of perseverance and skill.
’”
As Scrimgeour pulled out the tiny, walnut-sized golden ball, its silver
wings fluttered rather feebly, and Harry could not help feeling a definite sense
of anticlimax.
“Why did Dumbledore leave you this Snitch?” asked Scrimgeour.
“No idea,
” said Harry.
“For the reasons you just read out, I suppose . . . to
remind me what you can get if you . . . persevere and whatever it was.
”
“Y ou think this a mere symbolic keepsake, then?”
“I suppose so,
” said Harry.
“What else could it be?”
“I’m asking the questions,
” said Scrimgeour, shifting his chair a little closer
to the sofa. Dusk was really falling outside now; the marquee beyond the
windows towered ghostly white over the hedge.
“I notice that your birthday cake is in the shape of a Snitch,
” Scrimgeour
said to Harry.
“Why is that?”
Hermione laughed derisively.
“Oh, it can’t be a reference to the fact Harry’s a great Seeker, that’s way too
obvious,
” she said.
“There must be a secret message from Dumbledore hidden
in the icing!”
“I don’t think there’s anything hidden in the icing,
” said Scrimgeour,
“but a
Snitch would be a very good hiding place for a small object. Y ou know why,
I’m sure?”
Harry shrugged. Hermione, however, answered: Harry thought that
answering questions correctly was such a deeply ingrained habit she could not
suppress the urge.
“Because Snitches have flesh memories,
” she said.
“What?” said Harry and Ron together; both considered Hermione’s
Quidditch knowledge negligible.
“Correct,
” said Scrimgeour.
“A Snitch is not touched by bare skin before it
is released, not even by the maker, who wears gloves. It carries an
enchantment by which it can identify the first human to lay hands upon it, in
case of a disputed capture. This Snitch”
— he held up the tiny golden ball —
“will remember your touch, Potter. It occurs to me that Dumbledore, who had
prodigious magical skill, whatever his other faults, might have enchanted this
Snitch so that it will open only for you.
”
Harry’s heart was beating rather fast. He was sure that Scrimgeour was
right. How could he avoid taking the Snitch with his bare hand in front of the
